environment-variables: Add an example of setting env vars dynamically (#3055)
gitpod-io/website: gitpod/docs/configure/projects/environment-variables.md

> **Warning:** Care should be taken with secrets. Allowing secrets to be accessed from workspaces will expose those secrets to anyone who can open the workspace.

## Task terminal-specific Environment Variables

You can set environment variables for a Gitpod `task` terminal of VS Code by setting the `env` property within the task definition in your `.gitpod.yml`. Please note that such environment variables will be limited to the `task` terminal and is not globally set across the workspace.

### Using the `env` keyword

```yaml
tasks:
  - name: Example of setting an environment variable for a task terminal
    env:
      PRINT_ME: "Hello World!"
    command: echo "$PRINT_ME"
```

Note: The values should be a static string or integer, you can not refer to an existing variables via `env` keyword.

### Using the task SHELL

```yaml
tasks:
  - name: Example of setting an environment variable from inside the task SHELL
    command: |

>       # Example for referring to the exisiting system variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # Example for referring to the existing system variables
```

      export API_URL="$HOSTNAME"
      
      echo "$API_URL"
      yarn start
      
      # Updating PATH variable (example)

>       export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"

Reviewer: **Suggestion**: I think, `PATH` should be updated first or in another shell. Because tty input would not work if we run yarn start first.

Author: > Because tty input would not work if we run yarn start first.

Could you please elaborate a bit more on how you tested and found such issue 🙏 ?

Reviewer: Copy-Paste the command and try running it. `export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"` would never be executed. Because, server would already be started in same shell.

Author: Ah, I see what you mean now, that yarn start may block further execution till exit. The intention was to show a disconnected example, in that case we can create a separate task with a more involving example that puts a binary at `$HOME/.local/bin` and then updates PATH. Thank you for highlighting this 👍

> Note: The values should be a static string or integer, you can not refer to an existing variables via `env` keyword.
> 
> ### Using the task SHELL
> 
> ```yaml
> tasks:
>   - name: Example of setting an environment variable from inside the task SHELL
>     command: |
>       # Example for referring to the exisiting system variables
>       export API_URL="$HOSTNAME"
>       
>       echo "$API_URL"
>       yarn start
>       
>       # Updating PATH variable (example)
>       export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
> ```
> 
> Note: You can use this method when you need to refer to other variables or want to use scripting to set them conditionally.
> 

Reviewer: small nit-fix

```suggestion
Note: The values should be a static string or integer, you can not refer to existing variables via `env` keyword.

### Using the task SHELL

```yaml
tasks:
  - name: Example of setting an environment variable from inside the task SHELL
    command: |
      # Example for referring to the existing system variables
      export API_URL="$HOSTNAME"
      
      echo "$API_URL"
      yarn start
      
      # Updating PATH variable (example)
      export PATH="$HOME/.local/bin:$PATH"
```

Note: You can use this method when you need to refer to other variables or want to use scripting to set them conditionally.

```

> **Warning:** Care should be taken with secrets. Allowing secrets to be accessed from workspaces will expose those secrets to anyone who can open the workspace.

## Task terminal-specific Environment Variables

> You can set environment variables for a Gitpod `task` terminal of VS Code by setting the `env` property within the task definition in your `.gitpod.yml`. Please note that such environment variables will be limited to the `task` terminal and is not globally set across the workspace.

Reviewer 2: Not in the scope of these changes, but I'm for deleting this, as this is relevant in all clients. 

```suggestion
You can set environment variables for a Gitpod `task` terminal by setting the `env` property within the task definition in your `.gitpod.yml`. Please note that such environment variables will be limited to the `task` terminal and are not globally set across the workspace.
```

## Terminal-Specific Environment Variables

> You can set static environment variables for a Gitpod `task` terminal of VS Code by setting the `env` property within the task definition in your `.gitpod.yml`. Please note that such environment variables will be limited to the `task` terminal and is not globally set across the workspace.

Author: I do not have any specific reasoning, can you help me rephrase it differently 🙏 ?

> Is this language for "static" / "dynamic" common usage?

I basically applied a "programming language" concept here where a static variable can't refer to another dynamic value.

Edit: Okay, just saw your suggestion below, I'll revert this line and leave a note about benefit/cost for both methods 👍

## Terminal-Specific Environment Variables

You can set static environment variables for a Gitpod `task` terminal of VS Code by setting the `env` property within the task definition in your `.gitpod.yml`. Please note that such environment variables will be limited to the `task` terminal and is not globally set across the workspace.

For example:

```yaml
tasks:
  - name: Example of setting an environment variable for a task terminal
    # Note: You can not refer to an existing variable, the values should be static.
    env:
      PRINT_ME: "Hello World!"
    command: echo "$PRINT_ME"
```

> If you wish to set the variable dynamically via SHELL, you could do:

Author: Thanks for the suggestion! Will do.

> If you wish to set the variable dynamically via SHELL, you could do:

Author: Done, please re-review 🙏
